Patrick Sinclair Project Research
================
Patrick Sinclair

I’ve continued the pursuit of finding good data with which to examine
the coffee industry. With that in mind, I continue to have trouble
finding papers that drew from large datasets.

**“Rational Addiction to Caffeine: An Analysis of Coffee Consumption”**
is a short paper published in 1996. The paper utilizes linear regression
to analyze coffee consumption patterns based on price, previous
consumption behaviors and an addiction stock (though the authors
acknowledge the addiction stock is not observable). The paper draws its
data from the [U.S. Departure of Agriculture Economic Research
Service](https://www.ers.usda.gov/) While I don’t intend to pursue any
of the academic inquiry the paper looks into, it has been useful in
pointing me to the USDA ERS. Some of the data sets, such as the National
Household Food Acquisition and Purchase Survey, are of interest but
still light on observations.

**“The economics of quality in the specialty coffee industry: insights
from the Cup of Excellence auction programs”** uses seven models to
examine prices and perceived quality in the specialty coffee industry.
The models include OLS, multiple interactions added to the OLS, maximum
likelihood method and a final model that restricts the data set. The
data set was easily accessible - readily provided with the article
online however it is limited to approximately one thousand observations.

**“Coffee Shops and Street Stops: Policing Practices in Gentrifying
Neighborhoods”** sourced its data from NYC’s [311
register](https://nycopendata.socrata.com/Social-Services/311-Service-Requests-from-2010-to-Present/erm2-nwe9/data).
Following that lead took me to NYC Open Data, which may prove useful if
I pursue a similar inquiry as the article, perhaps patterns of
gentrification in NYC and how they are reflected in business operator
changes.

As much as I would like to pursue some line of inquiry into the
economics of the coffee industry, I need to consider other options. I’ll
spend part of my week pursuing more robust datasets related to coffee.
If the search is not fruitful, I’ll fall back at looking through the NYC
OpenData

#### Bibliography

Laniyonu, A. (2018). Coffee Shops and Street Stops: Policing Practices
in Gentrifying Neighborhoods. Urban Affairs Review, 54(5), 898–930.
<https://doi.org/10.1177/1078087416689728>

Olekalns, N., & Bardsley, P. (1996). Rational Addiction to Caffeine: An
Analysis of Coffee Consumption. Journal of Political Economy, 104(5),
1100-1104. Retrieved November 17, 2020, from
<http://www.jstor.org/stable/2138954>

Wilson, A.P. and Wilson, N.L. (2014), The economics of quality in the
specialty coffee industry: insights from the Cup of Excellence auction
programs. Agricultural Economics, 45: 91-105.
<https://doi-org.ccny-proxy1.libr.ccny.cuny.edu/10.1111/agec.12132>
